https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-22479 Adv cluster arch [WIP] (#8346)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/cluster_lifecycle/import_custom_bundle.adoc

> [#custom-server-url-ca]

Reviewer: make the anchor and file name a bit more consistent here. either rename the file to something like "custom_api_server_bundle.adoc" or update the anchor to something aligned with the original file name

Author: Updated

= Customizing the hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle during import

You might not be able to register a managed cluster on your {mce-short} hub cluster if intermediate components exist between the managed cluster and the hub cluster. Example intermediate components include a Virtual IP, load balancer, reverse proxy, or API gateway. If you have an intermediate component, you must use a custom server URL and CA bundle for the hub cluster API server when importing a managed cluster.

> 

Reviewer: Reminder to add required access

Author: Updated

.Prerequisites

* You must configure the intermediate component so that the hub cluster API server is accessible for the managed cluster.

> * If the intermediate component terminates the SSL connections between the managed cluster and hub cluster API server, you must bridge the SSL connections and pass the authentication information from the original requests to the back end of the hub cluster API server. You can use the User Impersonation feature of the Kubernetes API server to bridge the SSL connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must configure the intermediate component so that the hub cluster API server is accessible for the managed cluster.
- If the intermediate component terminates the SSL connections between the managed cluster and hub cluster API server, you must bridge the SSL connections and pass the authentication information from the original requests to the back end of the hub cluster API server. You can use the User Impersonation feature of the Kubernetes API server to bridge the SSL connections.
```

+
The intermediate component extracts the client certificate from the original requests, adds Common Name (CN) and Organization (O) of the certificate subject as impersonation headers, and then forwards the modified impersonation requests to the back end of the hub cluster API server.
+
*Note:* If you bridge the SSL connections, the cluster proxy add-on does not work.

.Procedure

> To use a custom hub API server URL and CA bundle when importing a managed cluster, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle when importing a managed cluster, complete the following steps:
```

. Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with the custom hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle. See the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: <name> <1>
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    url: "https://api.example.com:6443" <2>
    serverVerificationStrategy: UseCustomCABundles
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: <custom-ca-bundle> <3>
      caBundle:
        name: <custom-ca-bundle-configmap> <4>
        namespace: <multicluster-engine> <5>
----
+
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your custom server URL.
<3> Add your custom CA bundle name. You can use any value except `auto-detected`, which is reserved for internal use.
<4> Add your name of the CA bundle ConfigMap. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command: `oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file`

> <5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with the custom hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: <name> <1>
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    url: "https://api.example.com:6443" <2>
    serverVerificationStrategy: UseCustomCABundles
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: <custom-ca-bundle> <3>
      caBundle:
        name: <custom-ca-bundle-configmap> <4>
        namespace: <multicluster-engine> <5>
----
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your custom server URL.
<3> Add your custom CA bundle name. You can use any value except `auto-detected`, which is reserved for internal use.
<4> Add your name of the CA bundle ConfigMap. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command: `oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file`
<5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle ConfigMap.
```

> <5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your custom server URL.
<3> Add your custom CA bundle name. You can use any value except `auto-detected`, which is reserved for internal use.
<4> Add your name of the CA bundle config map. You can create the config map by running the following command: `oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file`
<5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle config map.
```

> <5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle ConfigMap.

Reviewer: let's change "ConfigMap" instances to "config map", unless you are referencing the `ConfigMap` resource

> . Select the `KlusterletConfig` resource when creating a managed cluster by adding an annotation that refers to the resource. See the following example:
> +
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
> kind: ManagedCluster
> metadata:
>   annotations:
>     agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <1>
>   name: <2>
> spec:
>   hubAcceptsClient: true
>   leaseDurationSeconds: 60
> ----
> +
> <1> Add your klusterlet config name.
> <2> Add your cluster name.
> +
> *Notes:*
> +
> * If you use the console, you might need to enable the YAML view to add the annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource.
> * You can use a global `KlusterletConfig` to enable the configuration on every managed cluster without using an annotation for binding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the `KlusterletConfig` resource when creating a managed cluster by adding an annotation that refers to the resource. See the following example:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1
kind: ManagedCluster
metadata:
  annotations:
    agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <1>
  name: <2>
spec:
  hubAcceptsClient: true
  leaseDurationSeconds: 60
----
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your cluster name.
+
*Notes:*
+
* If you use the console, you might need to enable the YAML view to add the annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource.
* You can use a global `KlusterletConfig` to enable the configuration on every managed cluster without using an annotation for binding.
```

[#config-gloabl-klusterletconfig]

> == Configuring the global _KlusterletConfig_

Reviewer: Seems like this topic can be it's own file. We can add this to your tech debt issue

If you create a `KlusterletConfig` resource and set the name to `global`, the configurations in the global `KlusterletConfig` are automatically applied on every managed cluster.

> In an environment that has a global `KlusterletConfig`, you can also create a cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` and bind it with a managed cluster by adding the `agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <klusterletconfig-name>` annotation to the `ManagedCluster resource`. The value of the cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` overrides the global `KlusterletConfig` value if you set different values for the same field. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an environment that has a global `KlusterletConfig`, create a cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` resource and bind it with a managed cluster by adding the `agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <klusterletconfig-name>` annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource. The value of the cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` specification overrides the global `KlusterletConfig` value if you set different values for the same field. 
```

---
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: global
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    url: "https://api.example.global.com:6443"
----

The value of the global `KlusterletConfig` is used if there is no cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` bound to a managed cluster, or the same field is missing or does not have a value in the cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig`. 

See the following example, where the `"example.global.com"` value in the `hubKubeAPIServerURL` field of the global `KlusterletConfig` overrides your `KlusterletConfig`:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: test
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerURL: ""
—
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: global
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerURL: "example.global.com"
----

See the following example, where the `"example.global.com"` value in the `hubKubeAPIServerURL` field of the global `KlusterletConfig` also overrides your `KlusterletConfig`:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: test

> —

Reviewer: in the other samples, there are 3 dashes to indicate a second yaml within the sample. Helping with consistency
```suggestion
---
```

[#custom-server-url-ca]

> = Customizing the hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle when importing a managed cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
= Customizing the hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle during import
```

Reviewer 2: If you have time to shorten that.

.Prerequisites

* You must configure the intermediate component so that the hub cluster API server is accessible for the managed cluster.
* If the intermediate component terminates the SSL connections between the managed cluster and hub cluster API server, you must bridge the SSL connections and pass the authentication information from the original requests to the back end of the hub cluster API server. You can use the User Impersonation feature of the Kubernetes API server to bridge the SSL connections.
+
The intermediate component extracts the client certificate from the original requests, adds Common Name (CN) and Organization (O) of the certificate subject as impersonation headers, and then forwards the modified impersonation requests to the back end of the hub cluster API server.
+
*Note:* If you bridge the SSL connections, the cluster proxy add-on does not work.

[#custom-server-url-ca-steps]

> == Customizing the server URL and hub cluster CA bundle

Reviewer 2: I think this can now just be .Procedure but you would need to make sure there are no links to this anchor.

Author: Updated

. Create a `KlusterConfig` resource with the custom hub cluster API server URL and CA bundle. See the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.open-cluster-management.io/v1alpha1
kind: KlusterletConfig
metadata:
  name: <name> <1>
spec:
  hubKubeAPIServerConfig:
    url: "https://api.example.com:6443" <2>
    serverVerificationStrategy: UseCustomCABundles
    trustedCABundles:
    - name: <custom-ca-bundle> <3>
      caBundle:
        name: <custom-ca-bundle-configmap> <4>
        namespace: <multicluster-engine> <5>
----
+
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your custom server URL.
<3> Add your custom CA bundle name. You can use any value except `auto-detected`, which is reserved for internal use.
<4> Add your name of the CA bundle ConfigMap. You can create the ConfigMap by running the following command: `oc create -n <configmap-namespace> configmap <configmap-name> --from-file=ca.crt=/path/to/ca/file`
<5> Add your namespace of the CA bundle ConfigMap.

. Select the `KlusterletConfig` resource when creating a managed cluster by adding an annotation that refers to the resource. See the following example:

> +

Reviewer 2: YAML is off

Author: Unable to fix after trying

Reviewer: Looks good from my perspective

metadata:
  annotations:
    agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <1>
  name: <2>
spec:
  hubAcceptsClient: true
  leaseDurationSeconds: 60
----
+
<1> Add your klusterlet config name.
<2> Add your cluster name.
+
*Notes:*
+
* If you use the console, you might need to enable the YAML view to add the annotation to the `ManagedCluster` resource.
* You can use a global `KlusterletConfig` to enable the configuration on every managed cluster without using an annotation for binding.

[#config-gloabl-klusterletconfig]
== Configuring the global _KlusterletConfig_

If you create a `KlusterletConfig` resource and set the name to `global`, the configurations in the global `KlusterletConfig` are automatically applied on every managed cluster.

In an environment that has a global `KlusterletConfig`, you can also create a cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` and bind it with a managed cluster by adding the `agent.open-cluster-management.io/klusterlet-config: <klusterletconfig-name>` annotation to the `ManagedCluster resource`. The value of the cluster-specific `KlusterletConfig` overrides the global `KlusterletConfig` value if you set different values for the same field. 

> See the following example where the `hubKubeAPIServerURL` field has different values set in your `KlusterletConfig` and the global `KlusterletConfig`. The "https://api.example.test.com:6443" value overrides the "https://api.example.global.com:6443" value:

Reviewer 2: Not sure why we have quotation marks here. Let's code these.

Author: Updated
